# Peripheral Medieval Manuscripts in the Midwest Community Agreements and Code of Conduct

The Peripheral Manuscripts: Digitizing Medieval Manuscript Collections
in the Midwest project is committed to providing a productive, inclusive
and welcoming environment for discussion and collaboration about
digitization, discovery, and preservation of medieval manuscript
materials. To support this and to further the goals of the project, we
expect all participants to follow our Community Agreements and Code of
Conduct, including project staff, project partners, meeting
participants, and other contributors.

The Community Agreements outline ways in which we encourage and expect
each other to hold safe, engaging, and respectful discussions. The Code
of Conduct outlines behaviors which will not be tolerated, how to report
concerns or incidents, and how the code will be applied.

## Community Agreements

Our project seeks to address the broader challenge of how to improve
archival discovery and delivery, or what people and systems do to find,
access, and use materials from archives and special collections. We
recognize that this work is supported by a wide range of responsibility
and kinds of expertise, across institutional contexts, levels of
resourcing, and the types of communities we serve. We also recognize
that people may be discouraged or excluded from these conversations in a
local context based on their identity or systemic issues including
racism, classism, sexism, homophobia, and more. To this end, we have
established a core set of principles for the project:

  - We believe everyone has something to contribute; not everyone
    needs to be a self-identified expert.

  - We focus on shared and holistic concerns and recommendations,
    rather than focusing on specific technologies or tools.

  - We enable the adaptability of recommendations across contexts,
    communities, levels of resourcing.

  - We develop recommendations consciously as an inclusive expression
    of professional ethics and values.

To be truly transformational, our work must be conducted in a space that
acknowledges the power dynamics of bringing together workers across
professional contexts, roles, and job classifications, while also
recognizing institutional privilege and the lack of representation of
marginalized peoples within special collections, archive, library,
disciplinary departments, and technology sectors.

We expect all participants to practice community by agreeing to the
following:

  - To ensure only one person speaks at a time, and consider pausing
    to allow those who need more time to process or interject in
    conversation to do so.

  - To make space and take space - encourage and yield the floor to
    those whose viewpoints may be under-represented in a group, and
    take space made for you as you’re able.

  - To listen to and respect a person’s description of their
    experiences, including but not limited to those related to
    marginalization and discrimination.

  - To recognize the interdependent nature of our work to support
    discovery and delivery of manuscript materials.

  - To acknowledge that choices around practice, implementation, and
    technology vary widely and can be dependent on the availability of
    resources, and to respect our work as incremental.

  - To provide a space where everyone can feel comfortable
    participating, even if they don’t use specific terminology or use
    the perfect way to express their ideas or insights.

  - To embrace curiosity and creativity, allowing for the opportunity
    to try new ideas, consider other perspectives, and establish new
    patterns.

  - To use welcoming language (including a person’s pronouns) and
    favor gender-neutral collective nouns (“folks” or “y’all,” not
    “guys”).

  - To give credit where it's due, and to uplift each other’s work and
    ideas.

  - To accept critique and feedback graciously, and to offer it
    constructively.

  - To seek concrete ways to make our physical spaces and online
    resources more universally accessible.

  - To acknowledge the difference between intent and impact, and to
    look for ways to take responsibility for any negative impact that
    we have.

  - To be aware of time, respecting the commitment of all participants
    and project staff to accomplish the goals of the meeting.

  - To take the moments that everyone needs to care for ourselves and
    their community, by paying attention to the needs of your body and
    mind, and to the welfare of those around us.

## Code of Conduct

The Peripheral Manuscripts project seeks to provide participants with
opportunities for collaboration that are free from all forms of
harassment and inclusive of all people. All communication should be
appropriate for a professional audience including people of many
different backgrounds. Verbal comments that reinforce social structures
of domination related to gender, gender identity and expression, sexual
orientation, disability, physical appearance, national or regional
origin, body size, accent, race, age, religion, or other marginalized
characteristics are inappropriate. Do not insult or put down other
participants. Be careful in the words that you choose. Sexist, racist,
and other exclusionary jokes are not appropriate for the meeting.

Harassment is understood as any behavior that threatens or demeans
another person or group, or produces an unsafe environment. It includes
offensive verbal comments or non-verbal expressions that reinforce
social structures of domination; sexual or discriminatory images in
public spaces (including online); deliberate intimidation, stalking,
following; threats or incitement of violence; photography or recording
without clear permission; sustained disruption of presentations or
discussion; inappropriate physical contact; and unwelcome sexual
attention.

### Photography and Recording

The video presentations and discussions will be recorded for internal
use. A subset or all of the presentations may be shared more publicly
(via Indiana University’s institutional repository or project-specific
sites like GitHub, but not without written consent. Meetings that take
place in break-out rooms will not be recorded.

We ask that you not photograph or take screen-shots of fellow
participants without permission of all those being captured. Please
ensure when taking group photos that everyone in the picture agrees as
to where the photograph will be shared. If you wish to record at the
event for personal use, please speak with the project team before the
meeting.

### Applying the Code of Conduct

All project participants — including the project team, partners,
facilitators, and participants — are expected to abide by this Code of
Conduct in person, in online spaces, and while present in any groups of
project participants inside or outside a formal project event (e.g.
including receptions and informal gatherings). Participants violating
the Code of Conduct will be warned and may be asked to leave an event,
and in some cases, may be asked to no longer participate in the project.
If you are being harassed, witness another participant being harassed,
or have any other concerns, please contact a person listed below.

### Contact information 

The project team and designated facilitators will be on hand to respond
to Code of Conduct violations and assist in following the Community
Agreements. If you witness, suspect, or are the target of a violation of
the Code of Conduct, contact one of the listed people below.

  - Michelle Dalmau -- [mdalmau@indiana.edu](mailto:mdalmau@indiana.edu)
    +1 (812) 219-7222 (phone or SMS)

  - Liz Hebbard --
    [ehebbard@iu.edu](mailto:ehebbard@iu.edu)
    +1 (404) 583-8819 (phone or SMS)

  - Sarah Noonan --
    [snoonan@saintmarys.edu](mailto:snoonan@saintmarys.edu)
    +1 (847) 924-6605 (phone or SMS)

## References

This Community Agreements and Code of Conduct has been adapted from the
document originally created by [Stanford
University’s Lighting the Way
Forum](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EpIj8JlzD114GlNkvoiNf89Q79MZ4rmIkHpTORj1mX8/edit#).
Their Community Agreements and Code of Conduct was initially developed
through consultation of a number of existing sources, including:

  - The [*Collective Responsibility*
    Code of Conduct and Community
    Agreement](https://laborforum.diglib.org/code-of-conduct-and-community-agreement/)

  - The [LDCX 2019 Code of
    Conduct](https://library.stanford.edu/projects/ldcx/2019-conference/code-conduct)

  - The [Digital Library Federation Code of
    Conduct](https://www.diglib.org/about/code-of-conduct/)

  - The [Recurse Center Social
    Rules](https://www.recurse.com/social-rules)

  - AORTA’s [*Anti-Oppressive Facilitation for
    Democratic Process: Making Meetings Awesome for
    Everyone*](https://aorta.coop/portfolio_page/anti-oppressive-facilitation/)

  - Seeds for Change’s [*Group Agreements for
    Workshops and
    Meetings*](https://www.seedsforchange.org.uk/groupagree)

  - Valerie Aurora and Mary Gardiner’s [*How
    to Respond to Code of Conduct
    Reports*](https://frameshiftconsulting.com/code-of-conduct-book/)
